Asahi linux documentation version 1 (#13)
EpiMac/docs: docs/Asahi/asahi-installation.mdx

---
title: Installation
id: asahi-installation
sidebar_position: 3
description: Asahi Linux installation process
keywords:
  - Asahi
  - MacOS
---

This guide is a comprehensive companion in installing Asahi Linux on your
compatible Apple Silicon Mac.
Whether you're a seasoned Linux enthusiast or new to the world of open-source
operating systems, this step-by-step instructions are crafted to ensure a
smooth, understandable, and successful installation experience.

> ## Importante Notice : Features limitations

Reviewer: <img width="851" alt="image" src="https://github.com/EpiMac/docs/assets/14821642/449f6122-49b7-453d-a375-f4b3918390b1">

I would personally add this part as a danger.
```suggestion
::::danger Important Notice

## Features limitations
```

Apple Silicon Mac, we want to ensure that you are **fully informed** about the
current state of hardware and software support.

While Asahi Linux represents a significant leap forward in running Linux on
Apple Silicon, it's important to be aware of certain features and
functionalities that are not yet supported or are in the early stages of
development.

Unsupported Features You Should Know About :
- **Hardware-Specific Features:** Certain Apple-specific hardware features, such
as the Touch Bar on some MacBook models, might not be functional.

- **Power Management:** While significant progress has been made, power
management features may not be entirely on par with macOS, potentially affecting battery life and thermal performance.

- **Wireless Connectivity:** Wi-Fi and Bluetooth functionalities might have
limited support, depending on your specific Mac model.

:::caution
We recommend that users who rely heavily on these features for their
day-to-day activities consider the current supported
[features](https://github.com/AsahiLinux/docs/wiki/Feature-Support) and
current broken [software](https://github.com/AsahiLinux/docs/wiki/Broken-Software)
before installing Asahi Linux.

> :::

Reviewer: To match the thread above
```suggestion
:::
::::
```

Author: Done in [next commit](https://github.com/EpiMac/docs/pull/13/commits/1df048a59d99a6e36718fce9f7b0dabd14782a74)

## Requirements

> There is the requirements in order to install Asahi Linux :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I would remove this line to have the same requirements text as other pages

- Apple Silicon chipset like M1, M2 or M3 family (all supported devices

> [here](https://github.com/AsahiLinux/docs/wiki/Devices))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Apple Silicon chipset like M1, M2 or M3 family (you can find all supported devices
[here](https://github.com/AsahiLinux/docs/wiki/Devices))
```

> - macOS 12.3 or later (Admin User)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- macOS Sonoma 12.3 or later
- Administrator privileges
```

- At least 60GB of free disk space (Asahi Linux Desktop require around 15Go)
- A fairly good internet connection (between 700Mo and 4Go of download)

> :::info
> Contrary to standard OS installation, Asahi Linux doesn't require any ISO
> file to USB sticks manipulation
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::info
You don't need a USB stick because unlike most of OS installation, Asahi Linux doesn't require any ISO file. 
:::
```

> :::caution
> Do not forget to do some data backup before installing Asahi Linux
> even though the installer will not erase your macOS partition but as we
> always say : "You can never be too cautious"
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::caution
Do not forget to backup your disk for precaution before installing Asahi Linux
even though the installer will not erase your macOS partition. You can never be too cautious!
:::
```

## Installation
The installation of Asahi Linux is quite straight forward, so don't worry

> everything will be easy !

Reviewer: ```suggestion
everything will be easy!
```

- First copy/paste [this](https://asahilinux.org/) command into your terminal
```bash
curl https://alx.sh | sh
```

> - Enter your sudo password :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Enter your admin password :
```

![curl](./img/install/curl.png)

- Press enter to skip the welcome message

> - After some OS Information is displayed, enter 'r' to resize an existing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Some OS information is displayed on your screen. After this, type 'r' to resize an existing
```

partition to make space for a new OS

![partition](./img/install/partition.png)

- Now choose the partition size you want to leave for macOS :

![partition-size](./img/install/partition-size.png)
:::caution
Choose your partition size wisely, it **can't** be changed after that step.
:::

> - Press 'y' after the system freezing note (it's normal don't worry)
> - Wait for the partitioning process to end
> - Press 'enter' after partitioning is done
> - Press 'f' to install Asahi Linux into the newly allocated free space

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Type 'y' after the system freezing note (it's completely normal don't worry)
- Wait for the partitioning process to end
- Type 'Enter' after partitioning is done
- Type 'f' to install Asahi Linux into the newly allocated free space
```

![partition-validate](./img/install/partition-validate.png)
:::info

> If you can see the newly allocated space (yellow), then the partitioning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you can see the newly allocated space (see the yellow rectangle above), then the partitioning
```

process
occurred without error.
:::

- Choose the OS you want to install by pressing the corresponding key

> - Press 'enter' in order to use all available free space for Asahi Linux

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Type 'Enter' in order to use all available free space for Asahi Linux
```

- Enter a name for your newly created OS

:::tip
Enter a name you can remember or obvious like Asahi Fedora
:::

> - Now the OS will be installed, wait for it to end
> - Enter macOS sudo password
> - If you want to improve Asahi Linux, press 'y' to report your install, if
> not then press 'n'
> - Press enter to reboot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Now the OS will be installed, wait for it to end
- Enter macOS admin password
- If you want to improve Asahi Linux, type 'y' to report your install, otherwise `n`
- Type `Enter` to reboot your computer
```

:::danger
We will enter the only "complex" part, so know please strictly follow the
instructions if you don't want to leave your new installation in an unbootable state
:::

- Here are the following instructions :

![warning](./img/install/warning.png)

> :::note
> If you wat this part to be detailed, please open an issue [here](https://github.com/EpiMac/docs/issues)
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note
If you want this part to be detailed, please open an issue [here](https://github.com/EpiMac/docs/issues)
:::
```

- After booting into Asahi Fedora, follow the installing process like a
normal Linux OS installation

> :::tip
> Don't forget to update your system when first using it 😉
> ```bash
> sudo pacman -Syyu
> ```
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::tip
Don't forget to update your system when first using it 😉
```bash
sudo pacman -Syyu
```

You can find more information about the package manager on [Arch Linux wiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/pacman)
:::
```

Author: I do not understand the changes u made, can you be more precise ?

Reviewer: My comment is broken, but I proposed to add after the bash code block this:
```md
You can find more information about the package manager on [Arch Linux wiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/pacman)
```

Author: Patch in [next commit](https://github.com/EpiMac/docs/pull/13/commits/93845fa4bec248b304d2c48864c5b5912554491e)

> - **Good Job ! You're now a member of Asahi Linux Community !**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Good Job! You're now a member of Asahi Linux Community!**
```

This is not a installation step.

Author: Text modification and link to github repo for contributing in [next commit](https://github.com/EpiMac/docs/pull/13/commits/1df048a59d99a6e36718fce9f7b0dabd14782a74)

Reviewer: https://github.com/EpiMac/docs/pull/13#discussion_r1438250183

> ## Uninstall

Reviewer: The page title is `Installation`. Maybe add this part in the title or create another page?

Author: Create another page for 4 lines ?

Reviewer: Idk

Author: I will try to verbose it a bit for a new page

Reviewer: we'll be changed in next update

In order to uninstall Asahi Linux, you simply need to :
- Run this command :
```bash
curl -L https://alx.sh/wipe-linux | sh

> ```

Reviewer: Where I am supposed to run this command? Inside the Asahi OS? MacOS?

Author: Add some precision in [next commit](https://github.com/EpiMac/docs/pull/13/commits/1df048a59d99a6e36718fce9f7b0dabd14782a74)

:::note
If you got an error about sudo privilege, nothing to worry about
:::

- Go to disk utility and erase free partition

> - **Good Job ! You erased Asahi Linux successfully !**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**You erased Asahi Linux successfully!**
```

process
occurred without error.
:::

- Choose the OS you want to install by pressing the corresponding key
- Type 'Enter' in order to use all available free space for Asahi Linux
- Enter a name for your newly created OS

:::tip
Enter a name you can remember or obvious like Asahi Fedora
:::

- Now the OS will be installed, wait for it to end
- Enter macOS admin password
- If you want to improve Asahi Linux, type 'y' to report your install, otherwise `n`
- Type `Enter` to reboot your computer

:::danger
We will enter the only "complex" part, so know please strictly follow the
instructions if you don't want to leave your new installation in an unbootable state
:::

- Here are the following instructions :

![warning](./img/install/warning.png)
:::note
If you want this part to be detailed, please open an issue [here](https://github.com/EpiMac/docs/issues)
or ask it on our [Discord](https://epimac.org/discord)
:::

- After booting into Asahi Fedora, follow the installation process like a
normal Linux OS installation

:::tip
Don't forget to update your system when first using it 😉
```bash
sudo pacman -Syyu
```
:::

> - **Good Job, You have successfully installed Asahi Linux !**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Good Job, You have successfully installed Asahi Linux!**
```
Still not a installation step

Author: Patch in [next commit](https://github.com/EpiMac/docs/pull/13/commits/93845fa4bec248b304d2c48864c5b5912554491e)
